Salam aleikum wa rahmatullah wa cats on
welcome to the podcast I'm with I'm run
for saying hey Saul are you doing okay
good
very good this jump straight into this
we're doing a response to Richard
Dawkins and his podcast with Joe Rogan
who is Richard Dawkins well those that
may not know he's an atheist apologist
and well actually I think for me to
introduce him would be maybe a little
bit not befitting maybe we should get
one of his colleagues to introduce him
okay um we have someone called yo Wilson
who is one of the most renowned
biologists no world well leading
biologists this is what he has to say
about him there is no dispute between me
and Richard Dawkins and never has been
because he's a journalist and
journalists are people who report what
the scientists have found and the
arguments I've had have actually been
with scientists doing research so he's a
gem so you were wrong when you said he's
his colleague he's not really good point
is easy someone that's in a totally
different field so very interesting yeah
I think we'd go with that definition I
think the reason why Wilson said this is
because of the ideological stance that
this man is taking with scientific
discourse it's not just a fact that is
going into laboratory and just narrating
kind of informatively the information I
was finding is it yeah this man is using
sign he's weaponizing science if you
like yeah for ideological reasons yes
Tomales is very evident bro that he has
a very he is an apologist for yes he is
he's just banging on about you know this
is the right thing this is the right
view trying dr. Nate children the very
thing to do by the very thing he's
telling us that he's saying that other
people are doing religions are doing
when he himself is doing that well let's
take a look at the clip where he he
actually this is one of the things that
came out in the podcast it's a good
thing you mentioned it because it's one
of the main things that were mentioned
the podcast that one of the things that
he finds wicked in his words
or detestable or whatever is is the
cotton core indoctrination of children
so let's take a look at him saying that
first of all and then we'll switch to
another clip and I said to him what's
your target audience and he said 12 and
I said really are you are you really
serious that you liked it he said hell
is at a terrible place that anything I
can do to persuade children not to sin
and they must acknowledge in knowledge
Jesus and so on his is worth it I
thought that was a deeply immoral thing
to say but I think he was sincere so as
you can see he's obviously finding that
quite disturbing but what I found
interesting is that near the end of his
podcast he himself started saying when
he was asked who were you trying to
target yeah with your book he said it
was children the woodies his publishers
wouldn't really allow you wrote this
it's a beginner's guide outgrowing God
well it's for young people I originally
wanted to write a book for the young
children and publishers didn't want to
do that is it the fact I think what it
is is that we have an uneven starting
point yeah that there there is an
assumption of neutrality when it comes
to atheist discourse at the end of the
day it's not agnostic discourse this man
is maybe you could say atheist
antitheist you know but this is
certainly not a neutral discourse and I
think what he's trying to present as is
benign neutral and therefore children
should should know these arguments from
the early age but when it comes to
religious discourses that should be
canceled out or if you want to live your
life through a religious discourse that
should not be afforded to you as a child
what do you think of this kind of with
him look I think it's quite evident I
think people can see through this so
it's not gonna be a bit shocked when I
say this he is it seems like someone
that's having what I call a late life
crisis right he realizes he probably has
a little more time on this earth and may
God guide him you know but he is on a
mission he wants to establish atheism as
the truth and to do this he does love
gymnastics he links science with atheism
as if they go hand in hand
he does a number of other reasons such
as say things about Islam for example
which have nothing to do with Islam he
doesn't even seem to know much about
Islam there was a point you wanted to
mention regarding this room yes I think
this is the thing one of the most
disturbing things about this individual
is that he does seem theologically
literate let's take a look at one
particular video that he actually won
part of the quad caste where he equates
Islamic belief with Jewish belief and
some and has something to say about what
Muslims believe about Jesus Christ let's
take a look what he says on that issue
there are lots of different religions
and Hindus believe in hundreds of gods
and Jews were even one God and Muslims
believe in one God when they don't
believe in Jesus and so as you can see
he doesn't seem to know that Muslims
believe in Jesus yeah yeah look you yes
Algren good we got we did the response
to is oh now this you know some may
argue this isn't really a blunder
whatever the case may be but this is a
common thread with him it's a common
trend with Dawkins right he even in his
book for example there is a very clear
this many blunders he makes yeah one
specific one which is almost a schoolboy
error because one thing that non-muslims
know about Islam a few things if there's
no bomb is one is the Eid celebration
right maybe other things would be the
five pillars etc but the Eid celebration
is world known right everyone knows and
when it comes to this he may he says in
one part of the book that oh look
you know the storming stoning of the the
stone which which happens during the
Hajj is a part of the Eid celebration
now obviously that's not the case
because we know those that are
performing Hajj they don't celebrate Eid
the support part of the hajj ritual not
the Eid celebration and those are
celebrating Eid are not stoning the
Jamaat which is the the pillar
you know these it happen the only thing
is it consigning the same day and what's
interesting is I was thinking why would
he make such a blunder
well one raising reason someone would
make such a blunder is if they're using
Wikipedia as their main source of
reference because I want a Wikipedia did
a bit of research and the way this topic
is covered it's very unclear
so someone's just reading that and
making that as using that as the main
source of or the main reference point
can
we fall into this so he went I'm
assuming that as the journalist he is
yes the atheist apologist he is and he
wanted to get his sources for Islamic
theology from some edited website
probably that's what it seems like the
case to be because if you're gonna make
such a blunder yes the only place you
can seem to make it from my background
what I would did some research on is
that it's Wikipedia and this I may be
wrong by I mean this is something Joe
Rogan has to pay attention to if he's
watching this video and I hope that he
does that when you continuously this
lowers the grade of all the stock of
your podcast you're bringing people who
are non specialists on certain topics I
mean this guy's not a theologian and
he's certainly not a philosopher yeah he
is I don't know what journalist you know
he's a journalist nice generally size
journalist he does have some
qualifications I don't know I know for a
while at least this year he's known as
the point is according to Wilson he's a
journalist finally you have you an
atheist journalist you come on bbc2 do
your atheist journalism you come on be
channel 4 to do 80's journalism and they
allow you on which which is problematic
in the first place especially for a
neutral station lab you see because
there should be there should be fair to
all religions you wouldn't bring a
Muslim on to run a Muslim discourse all
narrative you wouldn't bring a Christian
on to do anything but the point is
you're not you have no fluency or you
have no training in fields such as these
in effect you've made your name on the
back of these religions world religions
you make your money at the well and you
don't even know you probably have even
read a translation of the meanings of
the Quran for example the shocking
problem which is virtual and I think
it's important you're making this point
because people need to know this if
you're going to be speaking about
religion yes if you're gonna be
targeting cuz two of his main audiences
in his new book seem to be children the
American audience oh yeah particularly
the Christian American Christians and
the Muslim world all right
yeah he's highlight there's another
interviews I think on channel 4 is over
he said this in this podcast yeah so if
that's your audience and you're
addressing Muslims as one of your
primary audience at least have the what
can I use they at least have the common
courtesy
yeah to study the
the tradition if you're gonna comment on
if you're gonna write but if you try to
refute it yeah if you seen this book
another interesting thing he does is
when I was reading it I was like hey I
was thinking okay where is the dweller
of the chapters dealing with the Koran
where's the chapters dealing with Islam
there is no such thing in his book he
has chapters dealing with the Bible and
the Christian tradition all he does is
he says by extension this also applies
to Islam right that his days very as
terrible as far as well look I mean like
it like you say he's preaching to the
choir mhm but if he does really I mean
here's the thing is he's a good thing to
think about the fact that he's never
actually debated a Muslim
yeah and he's debated someone like John
Lennox who I believe destroyed him
completely annihilate my literature it
was Richard Dawkins and he debates it
others may I think William Lane Craig
but in some kind of panel discussion
debate so he's debated questions before
but he's not debated Muslims before let
alone Muslims who have any kind of
theological training or philosophical
training so I mean if you really feel
strongly about what he believes in and
don't you think the good idea for him to
come out and actually start debating
absolutely if again if he is addressing
the Muslim world if he's trying to
address the mostly address a Muslim like
for him listen right we as a collection
of brothers oh well you want to call it
a conglomerate of people who call to
Islam let's say right we have Arabic
stations we have Malaysian stations
bahasa things in and in in different
languages and it reaches millions of
people right so for example if we were
to debate with him it would you would be
at achieving his target objective game
he'd be getting through to millions of
people yeah you know and all he has to
do is accept our challenge like right
now we're challenging you Richard
Dawkins let's be let's be
straightforward we're challenging you to
come and debate because at the end of
the day you'd be speaking about Islam
from the time you wrote The God Delusion
and you mention Islam and Muslims all
the time but why not now you're almost
80 years old why not before you you know
depart the war you know leave the world
or whatever why don't you do one thing
which you never had the bravery to do or
never saw
fit to do before which is to actually
put your ideas make a critical observer
kind of scrutinize your ideas especially
of Islam at the end of the day if you're
speaking about a word religion why not
put your ideas to the test against
someone who knows no I mean let me ask
you a question real cause something he
says yeah and I want to get your
thoughts on this as well something he
says is religions are comforting this is
why man-made religion right because it
provides comfort right and he applies
this across the board to Islam as well
what do you think about this particular
statement true isn't it there's a
beautiful hadith of Prophet Muhammad
which says adamantly a moral movement in
the amaura who cool allow freedom well
they said actually I had any little
movement in a Sabha to Chikara in a
Sabha to Allah someone all chakra that
wondrous is the affair of the believer
and that all of his affair is good and
this does not apply to anyone except for
the believer and if good things before
him then he is thankful and if bad
things befall him then he's also
thankful meaning that everything has a
purpose there's an existential reason
for our existence and anything that
befores us whether it be good or bad is
something which has a greater cosmic
reason right the point is what he went
on to then say is that well this isn't a
good enough reason yeah to believe in
the existence of God therefore you made
it up no but the thing is this is we
don't use this as an argument for God's
existence yes we don't use this as a
clarification point for why the Prophet
Muhammad for example was a true prophet
so this is straw man argument and you'll
find that he doesn't actually this is
something that hallmark of his writing
has read his most recent book but I've
read The God Delusion
I've noticed about what he how he kind
of makes his arguments is that he
doesn't actually spend a lot of time
dealing with arguments philosophical
arguments for God's existence yeah he's
but a little bit of time talking about
Thomas Aquinas proofs in the book he
didn't even go anywhere near the
Aristotelian the Hellenistic
philosophers maybe he did you know very
dabble in a cursed leeway industry way
you know yeah he didn't even go anywhere
near the force of arguments of the
medieval Islamic period he didn't even
go anywhere near these theological
writings of the Muslims so this is not a
serious academic exercise what this is
is propaganda at its finest yeah and the
guy doesn't probably even know the names
of those books and he doesn't even know
how to access those books and many of
those books will be inaccessible for him
but he's not happy to sit and have his
ideas scrutinized he's happy and you'll
find that in the in the past couple of
weeks or three or four weeks the kind of
people that he's been to our people that
agree with him mm-hmm to a large extent
absolutely he's had podcast with cosmic
skeptic yes person I haven't watched
that podcast but I know that he's had
one cuz I saw one on YouTube he had
podcast obviously with Joe Rogan he has
gone to atheists absolutely so isn't it
time for him to step out of his comfort
zone he's the one who talks to everyone
about moving a crew employing
criticality and rationalizing and being
screwed
so you're in your echo chamber you're on
your idea stick echo chamber and you're
just comfortable having discussions with
people with like mind opinions as you
Joe Rogan the same thing can be said
about him I mean to be honest with you
when was it look at his look look at
this right Joe Rogan has I don't know
how many different podcasts look how
unde Iverson traditionalists on his show
yeah I never yeah maybe for us the hub
is the only one
probably yeah a proper Muslim tradition
this is the only time for us my so I
became on I I think maybe one or two
other people and the topic of
conversation wasn't even religion it was
something else yeah so these people are
not happy to come out of their comfort
zone they're speaking as if they own the
keys to rationality in an Enlightenment
but they are not even happy to come out
of their comfort well let's give Rogan
the benefit that maybe he hasn't come
across the opportunity to get someone
that knows what they're talking about on
the show too so counter what's been said
from the other end he's not an effort
well here's an opportunity right if they
want to they can always pick up on if
you want to you can always pick up on
well of course and I'm sure you won't
have a problem to go in there and even
if you personally I look we have mutual
friends yeah like for example for us the
Hobby fee if you wanted to easily get me
on the show anyone else like me then it
will be very easy and even if it means
to get Dawkins and you on at the same
time and have a bit of a discussion live
discussion that'll be that's what it's
got look this is what people are gonna
start realizing this about the Joe Rogan
experience yeah
that show you just bring a certain kind
of people like Sam Harris and Richard
Dawkins all right fair enough
you have the right to do that absolutely
yeah but you're not challenging yourself
by bringing these people on to agree
with you yeah I mean at the end of the
day where is a challenge in that you you
you you're a man of martial arts you
know what's the point of going to a
place where there's no challenge mmm
it's like sparring the white belt you go
in with someone you don't you he's
either black blond Brazilian Jujitsu for
one so going with someone who can give
you a bit of a you know something to
think about from another perspective
right yeah and so what I think is that a
lot of the things that look one thing
that you need to understand or that we
need to understand is that Richard
Dawkins in that podcast he didn't even
make any arguments because it's and this
is the sad thing people just are so
mesmerized by the fact that he is this
name and someone that's so popular that
they can't see past that and they can't
see the the the folly of the guy right
honestly here's a man that spends an
hour or so on the podcast doesn't want
make one positive strong argument if any
even a weak argument against Islam right
to any religion it's all emotional
emotional statements this is why I think
this is why I believe this is what we
should do this is what should happen
next and that's it you know what's even
more interesting than that there was a
discussion about morality at one point
yeah and in the in the podcast and yeah
when he was asked about that let's take
a look at this action let's take a look
when he was asked about morality how he
responded because he was he said he
doesn't know how to take it you know
what peg is morality on let's take a
look away says I in our growing God I
call it something in the air which of
course doesn't explain anything but what
I mean by that is that it's not
literally hovering in the air but it's a
concur it's a current collection of all
conversations between people dinner
party conversations parliamentary
decisions congressional debates judicial
decisions by judges juries
newspaper articles journalism all these
things together conspire together to
produce
something in the air something that
defines a given century or maybe even a
given decade with the moral values of
that of that decade absolutely
dumbfounded so as you can see there what
what can we say about that yeah it
doesn't so but the thing is what I find
it about this guy to be honest with you
is that he's just employing a series of
anachronisms and present isms right
because he's saying okay well we can't
really answer the question of his
morality true or not in his book I think
it's the blind watchmaker yeah I think I
think this is the book that he wrote
this in that is only pitiless
indifference who's no good and there's
no evil there's no yeah so he doesn't
believe in an objective morality yeah
yeah despite the fact that it does not
believe in an objective morality he
still labels Abraham Lincoln for example
as you know one of the forerunners the
vanguard of morality and he even used
the word liberal yeah and obviously in
this case he means the political
philosophy liberalism so the point is
how where was this epistemic jump now
from there is no objective morality -
these are the moral people yeah but it's
just smoke and mirrors I'll be honest
yeah this is what he's doing you've seen
his new book as well Algren god he has a
chapter on this how do we know to do
with how do we know what's good and
moral without religion all he is doing
he's bringing in several different
things such as he's a bit of
evolutionary biology to explain morality
a bit of moral philosophy a bit of what
he calls what's up in the air meaning
times change morality changes you know
there's discussions at dinner tables
these discussions that philosophers and
thinkers have there are ideas that
spread through society writers poets etc
they come together and all these ideas
that means thrown around it creates
something in the air which leads us to
know what's right and wrong so what is
essentially saying bro is his standard
one is confused and he can't peg it down
to at best his standard for morality is
just subjective what's objectively
understood to be correct in the times
that we live in that is the anchor by
which he's gonna judge objective reality
objective truth such as the tradition of
Islam but that's the problem because his
arguments are actually moral argument
absolutely why why should we not believe
in religion because this immoral to
believe it because think about itself
anyway attacks Islam for example or
what basis does he want Muslims or
people to not turn towards Islam is it
based on rational arguments no it's
based on his moral claim ssam is bad
because x y&z grassi's is talking
nonsense when he talks about these
things and he doesn't always talking
I've read the Quran it's a joke but that
is his argument but he is a man who
doesn't have a moral standard hmm
so if you if you go back if you trace go
down the rabbit hole you see the guy has
no leg to stand on literally do you know
what I found really shocking about his
book when I first really not this new
one I haven't read yeah you don't need
to read it always nothing special I'm
pretty sure I'm sure you've read it's
probably slightly more in-game in fact
at one point you know our books both me
and Hamza yeah the books over took his
book The God Delusion
Amazon basically and for those who want
something to refer to
Hamza so this book is called the divine
reality if the second edition is out
there on Amazon now my book is called
Kalam cosmological argument three pounds
let's bring it back because this is much
cheaper than Dawkins book at the money
so the point I'm making is this let's go
back to the point I was making which was
morality
he's his outlook something about
something I look at his book and you
know I'm really shocking and surprising
is that in the beginning of the good
division he said he doesn't object to am
to a notion of God like the whole
Feinstein's notion which is like a deal
it is to come but that really like I was
thinking you really threw the cat in
with the pigeons there because you're
saying you don't actually have a problem
with the idea of an entity that brings
rise to everything that exists which is
commonly referred to in a vernacular as
God yeah you just have a problem with
the qualities that this God has been
given yeah at one point in the
discussion and this is where they think
they've got the kind of that's just
ridiculous if they think they've got
like the strongest argument is talking
about who designed the designer yeah and
this is like a five-year-old question
yeah a seven-year-old to ask this
question and probably a a seventy an
uninformed seven-year-old who designed
the designer yeah and we always ask the
quo is God a designer
go see the undesigned design i see the
creator or see the uncreated creator so
asking who created yeah the uncreated is
a contradiction in terms
absolutely you know and he doesn't seem
to follow the arguments presented by
philosophers and theologians of the
uncreated creator we're not saying that
God is just the Creator
we're saying that he's the uncreated
eternals being absolutely right and if
you if you have a problem with this then
you have to show us otherwise right but
but but the the ish the funny thing is
and it's all wishy-washy philosophy I
don't think he's read up on any
philosophy in any serious way but what
he said what he suggests his line of
reasoning to make the point about who
created God is the universe is complex
therefore the creator must be complex
and therefore he needs to be explained
to right right exactly
okay that's your that's your opinion
that's your it doesn't mean it's what
you're saying those guys are
materialists or something yeah so he
thinks that our understandings of
complexity in the world must be in
accordance with their metaphysical
understanding will be the same yes first
of all we don't concede to God being a
complex absolutely yeah and number two
when we say God has many attributes it's
different to saying God has many parts
yeah you we don't compare him to the
physical world right he's understanding
is that because he even mentioned this
in the podcast he said look and at one
point he was saying look at the camera
is very complicated and something like
that and and this is something he always
does and this was his main argument in
The God Delusion
I'm just shocked and amazed that he's
allowed to get away with this stuff on
national TV I'm shocked and amazed
because on channel 4 he said the same
thing when he was speaking to the asian
man a group of guru-murthy has names
yeah he was saying look he said you know
one of the most compelling argument for
God's existence is the argument from
complexity right so he said that well
you know you have these things like for
example the cameras complex and this and
that and you wouldn't think that could
just be kind of play together like
randomly enjoyed so on so forth but he
said this was our conception
before evolutionary biology or before
the understanding of evolution and now
that we have understanding evolution we
no longer have
yeah and this is how they finished the
podcast and then in the in the in the
channel for interview he was saying the
same thing applies and you know the the
man was his name sorry the Asian guy
guru fee yes so he was like what about
the universe which is a good question
because the universe is not a difference
between physics and biology I'm sure
he's aware right he says yeah same thing
applies so he's now in he's projecting
yeah this is myth
this is mythology yeah he's projecting
right a biological understanding of
living organisms or non living organisms
you know rock this shows a desperation
to make this is delicious
this is mythology this is atheist
pseudoscience that is best best
basically it's Vasudha that's him in
four that's him really super imposing
and that's what the quran says la jolla
Kusama watch allah akbar hulking ness
well I can actually say Alamo you know
that the creation of the heavens in the
earth is bigger than the creation of
human beings but most people don't think
about that in other words why are we
saying with this insignificant
comparatively insignificant significant
life form on this planet Earth when we
have the whole cosmos absolutely which
is not actually biologically it's not a
biological in the door at that point
exactly beyond so now when you're
talking about natural evolution and so
on yeah okay if you wanted to say that
about if you want to say that about
living organisms we at least can see
where you're going with it yeah we don't
agree that it's unguided and that the
all of these things are unguarded
however if you're gonna say the same
thing about the celestial matter the
fabric of space and the physic the
physical environment the non-biological
now you're being ridiculous yeah this
this reminds me this is he this is
always attempting to get Krauss to do a
point he was hoping cross would be the
one that introduces or discovers the
evolution of the physical world as he
found as it's understood ontology but
obviously cross was dealt with Bahamas
ax and after that he moved on or he's
trying to find replace and I think to be
honest with you after that debate with
Krauss and hamsa I think there's been a
bit of a movement away from a giving
Muslims a platform as it were yeah what
happened after that debate is really
right there was a big shift towards
religion and there was a big shift
towards people but atheists becoming
less convinced so today houses people
comment under the video saying you know
what you said there was truth in that
you know and they're considering Islam
and looking into it it's inspiring that
video more than I don't know how many
millions yeah just an English language
and it was try so look these people know
what to do if they really want their
message to come out they have to find
they have to find the courage you know
to get someone to debate them on these
issues yeah someone with a reach someone
who can whose work will be translated in
many different angles I hate to repeat
this point he kept repeating the point
that his book gets 13 million downloads
in Arabic language right which okay many
things get 13 million down in an Arabic
language I'm sure many pornography's get
so people are curious doesn't mean I'm
overcoming atheists yeah yeah people are
becoming atheists as well yeah it's true
right however if you really want to have
access points to the Muslim world there
has to come a time where you you have
courage enough to face someone with the
ideas that you have now you've nearly
ended your life I mean you know 78 years
old Richard Dawkins so it's not too late
now to really kind of sorry to say man
up you know and and face a Muslim who
knows what they're talking about who has
some kind of a platform and we're happy
to absolutely honesty and integrity
dictates that if he's serious about his
position yes seriously believes in his
position
yes and he wants to address the Muslim
world he has to step I don't see another
way around it he has to step up in his
lifetime and face off or in a public
discussion or a debate with a Muslim who
knows their position if he is honest but
nothing serious man like you know there
are many channels which are dedicated to
translating our videos yeah in the
Arabic language yeah there's like maybe
three or four major channels with tens
of millions of views just on those
channels the same thing applies with in
bahasa
and basically the Malaysian and
Indonesian area so the if imagine if you
debase one of us right I'm happy to be
myself he debates us the video is
translated into many different how many
views is that going to get
yeah how if he really wants to access
points to the many the board believed
his message is strongly believes in the
truth of what he believes just how much
coverage is that gonna get a lot it's
gonna get way more coverage than it
meets his objective it's gonna get more
coverage than the 30 million so if you
if his objective genuinely is to try and
put his message to the Muslim world and
not just preach to the choir and go to
cosy little comfortable places yeah
where people agree with you in the world
view then you're gonna have to put
yourself in a bit of a scary situation
I'm sorry to say and and and and really
has no excuse because at this stage
we're introducing him to a platform to
her people which he would not have had
no access to in different languages and
so on so I want to repeat the the
challenge if you really feel like you
want to speak about Islam and Muslims
and you should do it to Islam and
Muslims yeah we handle a lot like when
everyone I speak to Christians we bring
Christians to speak to yeah speak to 80s
for bring create ESP liberals with fear
we'll bring a top-notch academic atheist
will speak to them so why don't you have
the same kind of sadness for yourself
absolutely and I would even encourage
his followers those that take him
seriously that's right to seriously
consider what we're saying and they'll
probably realize if they're honest that
they're making a valid point the guy was
to address Muslims he writes about
Muslims he wants to attack the Islamic
tradition speak to a Muslim publicly you
know won't represent opposition that
before we end I wanted to kind of
mention which is the point that Joe
Rogan referred to as a home run as I
said look there's so many gods in the
world there's so many religions what
kind of nonsense is that
yeah the the argument is there are so
many religions they feel wrong therefore
they're all wrong and he makes talking
is the same sub became there's so many
gods therefore they were wrong that's
right so look why not Zeus why not
Hercules I don't know why I mean where
do you even begin with such nonsense
because the truth is this is that number
one when we refer to God let's just make
this very clear so that atheist at least
have some insight because I'm sure some
atheists are gonna be watching this
video and hopefully Richard Dawkins
himself will have at least some access
to hopefully maybe Joe Rogan himself
is yet to put me on the show and
hopefully might do so after this yeah
but the point is this is that the thing
is about when we talk about God how when
we say God what do we mean right when we
know that there are many gods in the
sense that there are many gods that have
been there many objects of worship
there have been many objects of worship
historically and currently
contemporaneously we see that there are
many objects of worship hercules is an
object of worship Zeus is an object of
worship right yep Jesus is an object of
worship when monotheists or people that
he has a fetish with really all fixation
with Abraham people from the Abrahamic
religions when we referring to God
barring maybe Trinitarian understandings
for now what we're talking about is the
creator of the universe yeah okay the
one creator of the universe the
all-powerful all-knowing they're all and
so on and so forth right and the
argument should not be straw man what
we're saying is that there is one
creator of the universe who is
pre-eternal post-eternal all powerful
all knowledgeable and which brought rise
to everything that exists this is our
conception of God obviously there are
other attributes and that's per the
religious traditions and you'd have to
go into which book one believes in and
so on to kind of know the attributes of
God yeah but when we talk about a God
the creator of the universe that's the
that's where the conversation should be
if someone believes in an object of
worship that's outside of that we would
say okay well that is their objective
worship wouldn't deny that for them
however when we are talking about
something which stirred up the universe
that is what you need to disprove
absolutely not talking about spaghetti
monster or Zeus order and then he calls
it a homerun what's a homerun about it
you say yeah there's nothing homerun
about that much yeah you look at that
particular point could be seen for many
different perspectives right it could
just be highlighting human nature that
we human beings by the very nature are
drawn towards worshiping and I okay good
but also this can also highlight a point
that we understand from the Islamic
tradition which is that God sent
messengers throughout history with the
same fundamental message right right
obviously the laws and rules were
different for different societies and
communities but the
mental message about God's existence who
he his his nature and the purpose of
human life was always the same and what
we see is that people change the
revelation of that was interesting more
historically I mean looking at into this
recently there are two general theories
of the religion of history the the
history of religion the one line of
thinking which has become predominant
after the early 20th century and the
debates that they had was that there is
it starts with a polytheistic type of
outlook and then it develops to a
monotheism but there was very strong
evidence which the other camp held and
still do some people that know it
started off with monotheism and then it
developed to polytheism which is people
change their added gods and deities etc
so there's is this this particular point
is not a home run it could be seen in
many many different ways I don't know
why this he as a yeah as such a strong
point against religion so what could we
not say that to make sense of the data
because as they acknowledge yeah
deification of some objects of worship
is something which is concurrent and
also the humans absolutely yes we have
an implanted receptivity to believe in a
God in his own University richard
dawkins justin barrett i think it's just
a number yes yes he mentioned this in
the oxford anther process of science
2011 that we have this implanted kind of
receptivity why it's alive and so
we believe in God right however having
said that now the question is how would
you explain the data and why are we this
is the question right so these are
narrative which he hasn't really
understood I don't think it was a very
basic narrative is there was messengers
and prophets that came before time all
of them came with the same message that
there's only one God worthy of worship
and that you have to worship Him the
creator of the universe and that this is
the way to worship Him and there's some
evidence that the Prophet comes with
whatever prophet it may be and Jesus is
a prophet for us and is the Messiah yes
I'm sure he didn't know so he's one of
the people you know who came before
times in the children of Israel proper
matters the final prophet this is the
narrative that he needs to properly
understand before he tries to even
refute
one thing I do agree with them on though
which I don't think many people would
know that we agree with them on but I
think it's a good place to end this
conversation because we don't want to go
too long
because people have things to do and
obviously this is I think but the point
is at one point I think the real concern
they had was teaching children about the
Hellfire mm-hmm
and and scaring children with Hellfire
look from an Islamic perspective you
know the hadith says Rafi Alcala mantras
that the pen has been lifted upon three
people types of people and one of them
is LL
one of them is a sabi you had a home you
know the young one until they become
pubescent the point being is that I
agree with the fact totally agree with
the children should not be yea scared
with the Hellfire absolutely because
that is not in line with the Islamic of
course the Islamic narrative does not
say that children will go to hell so for
a parent to try and use this as some
kind of teaching method yeah you know I
think even the Christian you can even
argue the Christian narrative said the
same thing Allah Allah like you can do
it just like that but the point is is
that religious people shouldn't some of
them do right they shouldn't use
Hellfire as a means to frighten their
children yeah and as it means to get
them to do what they want to do because
at the end of the day what happens is
those children end up being frightened
and it could actually end up lingering
in their minds and absolutely it does
yeah couldn't make it and moreover it's
not true yeah it's not true that those
children because they're misbehaving I'm
gonna go to hell fire first so the point
is that kind of a discourse should be
should be confined to or should be had
with with adults you know adolescence so
sorry with adults so that that's what I
would I would advocate I agree with them
yeah but I think they don't know that we
agree with them on these brings but just
to kind of summarize what we're saying
is that here just as a as a final
challenge really to both men to Richard
Jewell Dawkins and Joe Rogan look I'll
say look everyone say Richard joking's
it was always a Freudian slip there
though on its way but you know what's
gonna say was we're happy to communicate
we're happy to have these discourses we
have the platforms
we have those platforms have different
languages if you really want access
points that are Muslim world if you
really have conversations with Muslim
representatives which can be
far-reaching then we're here for you we
have you and it's not gonna be a hostile
conversation yeah well it's gonna be one
of disagreement and if you're ready for
that disagreement and if you're ready to
defend yourself against a disagreement
you challenge yourself and be critical
about what you believe in right then
we're here to provide that service for
you no I completely agree with that I
think it's it's high time that he steps
up and he takes on that challenge and is
if it doesn't listen to us his followers
should encourage him to do that we're
here it's open it's on the table it's
gonna be nicer than me Frankie's gonna
be public people are gonna see people
who benefit as follows will benefit if
and suppose the world will get to hear
his message absolutely it did it's a win
win win from every single perspective
and if he doesn't step up for me at
least it clearly outlines his number one
his in sincerity and number two his lack
of belief in his own position that's
what yes I mean look he went on a
podcast with a person with a similar
kind of reach as I do just as a one
person he doesn't as good skeptic yeah
and by the way I challenged and we had
the brain Oxford yes he came on his
podcast had no problem with that right
so if if it's about getting the message
to young people is it about getting the
message to young atheists young white
people or do you really want to get the
message in was the more yeah by saying
that I believe he'll never step up he's
afraid of the intellectual strength of
the Islamic tradition and he will never
stop him and in every debate Muslim
that's just how I feel I don't think it
doesn't need to pay us just come and
discuss with I don't think you come
anywhere near you bro
but let's hope he does and this hope God
guides him you know before his time but
yeah I think we could wrap up on that I
think we'd look good all right thank you